
# What is the difference between V3 and V2? 

> The difference between V3 and V2 only exists in the BK Enterprise Edtion. V2 corresponds to the BlueKing Enterprise Edition 2.X, V3 corresponds to the BlueKing Enterprise Edition 3.X, and the Community Edition is unified to V3. 

IAM V3 uses the most powerful and flexible ABAC in the industry (Attribute-Based Access Control) model engine, incorporating ACLs (Access Control List)、RBAC (Role-Based Access Control)、LBAC (Label-Based Access Control) concept, the optimized auth model is re-adjusted, so that IAM can still easily deal with the authentication of a large number of instances, and the query and authentication performance has been exponentially improved. At the same time, at the product level, the Manage of permissions is simplified, focusing on core Scene, which is more humanized and more in line with the actual business needs.

 <table><tbody> 
 <tr><td width="20%">Features</td><td width="40%">V3</td><td width="40%">V2</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">The ABAC auth model</td><td width="40%">is more flexible and powerful. It supports more customized Scene</td><td width="40%">and is less flexible.</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">Backend Advantages</td><td width="40%">Self-developed engine, support ABAC, Query/authentication performance, QPS 10000+</td><td width="40%">casbin-based, query/authentication performance, QPS 3000+</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">There are Three ways to obtain auth</td><td width="40%">: join userGroup, inherit organization permissions, and customize permissions. There are Four more</td><td width="40%">ways: join user group, permission template authorization, inherit organization permissions, and customize permissions. Authorization is flexible but difficult to Manage</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">userGroup</td><td width="40%">group can Add Permissions template. There is no EXP between the permission template and the user group. When a user or organization joins a user group, there is only One validity period</td><td width="40%">. A user group can add a permission template. Each permission added can have a separate validity period. A user or organization does No Need a validity period to join a user group. There are cases where a user group has added some permissions but has Without permission (expired</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">auth templates</td><td width="40%">can only be authorized after being link userGroup. There is an association relationship between permission templates and user groups. After edit permission templates, they can be synchronized to the associated user groups.</td><td width="40%">Permission templates can be authorized to users separately. There is no association relationship between permission templates and user groups. After editing permission templates, they cannot be synchronized to the associated user groups</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">auth setting</td><td width="40%">select the required Operation permission directly. Select an instance directly from the top Resource type. Business Name and project are only the top resource types.</td><td width="40%">Select the resource type first and then check the corresponding operation. When selecting a resource instance, you need to select the built-in resource range first: Business Name, project, select specific resources instance</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">Level 2 Permissions</td><td width="40%">version 3 introduces the Grading AdministratorGuides, which supports the authorization capability of any resources range. The authority administrator can be the authority administrator of One instance or all resource instances</td><td width="40%">. None</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">Super Administrator</td><td width="40%">built-in Role, which only needs simple setting. By default, it only has the authorization auth of all access system. approve configuration, it can have all resources permissions without authorization. It can directly authenticate</td><td width="40%">One special userGroup through the role, and still need to authenticate through the permission of the user group</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">The Administrator</td><td width="40%">built-in Role, which only need simple setting. By default, it only has the authorization auth of the corresponding system. approve configuration, it can have the resources omnipotent type of the corresponding system. The corresponding system permission does not need to be granted, and Other system permissions can be granted. One special userGroup is directly authenticated through the role</td><td width="40%">, and the user group permission is still required to authenticate.</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">admin</td><td width="40%">Built-in super Administrator Role, the default has all access to the system authorization and resources permissions The</td><td width="40%">default is added to the super administrator userGroup, the default has all access to the system authorization and resource permissions</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">system access</td><td width="40%">SDK support (Python/Go language version is open source)</td><td width="40%">No SDK support</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">The instance Storage mode is</td><td width="40%">distributed storage. resources instances are Pull from the access system only when the user setting the instance auth. The accessCenter does not store the instance data</td><td width="40%">separately. The resource instances are stored in the permission center in a centralized manner.</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">The authentication mode is</td><td width="40%">distributed authentication. The accessCenter only Storage the Alert Rules Expression. The specific authentication logic needs to be analyzed and compared by the access system</td><td width="40%">. The authority center is responsible for analyzing and authenticating all instances</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">Instance select method</td><td width="40%">Topology view selection, supports selection of resources at any level, supports multiple instance view selection of the Resource type</td><td width="40%">, supports nested list selection, and onlySupport single topology selection of the same resource type</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">Organization architecture Authorized</td><td width="40%">organizations can be authorized only when they join a userGroup.</td><td width="40%">Organizations can be directly authorized by auth templates</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">auth Alert Rules</td><td width="40%">Operation authentication</td><td width="40%">resources authentication</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">The SDK</td><td width="40%">supports Java, Python, and Go, among which Python and Go are open source</td><td width="40%">.</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">The Approval process</td><td width="40%">currently supports superior approval, hierarchical administrator approval, Administration approval, super administrator approval, designated Approver approval</td><td width="40%">, superior approval, resources approver approval, super administrator approval, system administrator approval, and designated approver approval</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">Personal auth all</td><td width="40%">userGroup Permissions + customize Permissions</td><td width="40%">My Permissions</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">Best Practices</td><td width="40%">Grading Manager + userGroup</td><td width="40%">None</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">Relationship between resources</td><td width="40%">Resources are registered independently by default, and the link relationship is established approve the instance view. Business Name and project are only</td><td width="40%">the default subordinate relationship between one type of hierarchical resources, among which business, project and global are the resource isolation range</td></tr> 
 <tr><td width="20%">The relationship between operation and resources The operation</td><td width="40%">and Resource type are link, and the decoupling</td><td width="40%">operation is subordinate to a resources type and fully coupled</td></tr> 
 </tbody></table> 