 # Term 

 - **Components** In the BlueKing system, we call each third-party interface connected to the ESB (Enterprise service Bus) a component. 
 - **Standard Plugin** Standard OPS performs Two encapsulation based on the Business Name logic of each ESB Components, adding rich form interfaces and validation logic. These are called standard plug-ins.  It can be a Script job of a Job System, an API call of a Tencent Cloud Service, or a timer. 
 - **Node** One Flow unit in Standard OPS, including process Control Node and Task Node.  When a Task is execute, each nodes has a Status of unexecute, Running, SUCCEED, and fail. 
 - **Flow Control Node** A type of node in Standard OPS. It does not contain specific execute logic and is only used to control the execution of Task processes.  If the start Node identifies the start of the Task Flow, the Gateway node controls the start and end of the parallel flow and the Branch flow. 
 - **Gateway Node** includes Parallel Gateway, Exclusive Gateway and Converge Gateway, and is used to control the start and end of parallel and branch Flow. 
 - **Parallel Gateway** Used to identify the start of parallel Flow. It Must be paired with an Converge Gateway to control parallel execute of multiple nodes. 
 - **Exclusive Gateway** Used to identify the start of the branch Flow. It is not mandatory to use it in combination with an Converge Gateway.  According to Processing of the Branch Expression, the execute of One of the multiple branches can be dynamic controlled.  Please note that the Exclusive Gateway expects to have one and only One branch hit. If there are multiple branches or no branch hits, the spoke gateway will report an error. 
 - **Conditional Parallel Gateway** Used to identify the start of Branch parallel Flow. It Must be paired with Converge Gateway. It can dynamic control the parallel execute of multiple branches that meet branch conditions according to the Processing result of branch Expression. 
 - **Converge Gateway** Used to identify the end of a parallel Flow or Branch process. Note that in Standard OPS, a branch process can be embedded in a parallel process, and a branch process can also be embedded in a parallel process. Make sure that the aggregation gateway corresponds to the parallel gateway or Exclusive Gateway one by one, instead of being cross-embedded or not matched. 
 - **Task Node** A task node is a specific execute logic unit of Standard OPS, including Standard Plugin nodes and Subflow nodes. Each task node includes basicInfo, Input Parameters and Output Parameters.  You can approve Set as var to quickly Generate and reference Global Variables for Input Parameters, or you can reference global variables create by extraction.  Output Parameters can also be quickly converted to Global Variables for subsequent node approve Set as var. 
 - **Standard Plugin Node**: The smallest execute unit in Standard OPS. The standard plug-in provided by standard OPS needs to be referenced. It means that the select standard plug-in will be executed One when a Create Task approve a Flow template. 
 - **Subflow Node** user can reuse process templates approve sub-process nodes.  In general, user can add multiple Flow templates, each of which has simple functions. Then, in the newly created process template, you can reference the previously Created simple process template as a Subflow to form a new process template with complex logic. 
 - **Sequence Flow** A sequence flow is a directed line segment used to connect two nodes in Standard OPS, which identifies the execute direction of a Task Flows. 
 - **Flow/Process Template** In Standard OPS, One Scene is a Flow, and a process is a template for Create Task. 
 - **Checks/Task Instance** In Standard OPS, we can Created a Task according to One Flow. Each task is a real Business Name Scene job, and the task can be PAUSE or forcibly terminate. 
 - **Mini-App** One Shortcut to Flow Task, which is Generate based on processes and can be directly search, append and opened in SaaS mode on BlueKing APP Market & Desktop.  This kind of SaaS Apply that does not need to be Develop and is quickly Generate is called "Mini-App". 
 - **Helper Team** Personnel with Flow Manage auth can delegate the Operation of process Task to third-party personnel (such as: Outsourcing, external personnel) to help Flow Manage from the heavy execute of the liberation. 
 - **Global Variables** A global variable is a Common Params of One Flow template, and is constrained approve KEY for uniqueness.  user can reference it in the Input Parameters and Exclusive Gateway Expression of the Task Node. Standard OPS auto Replace the reference of the Global Variables with the value of the global variable during task execute. 
 - **Input Parameters** The Task Node is used to receive the parameters passed by the user. You can use Global Variables or fixed values. 
 - **Output Parameters** Relevant Field output after the Task Node execute. The output parameters vary according to different Standard Plugin. 