## 7. Component classification and function description

The table shows the types, names and function descriptions of bkvision's existing components. Users can select the appropriate component type based on the function description in the chart:

<table border="1">
    <tr> 
        <th class="center-text" style="width: 100px;">Type</th>
        <th style="width: 150px;" class="center-text">Chart</th>
        <th class="center-text">Function Description</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td class="center-text" style="width: 100px;" rowspan="7">Bar Chart</td>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Line Chart</td>
        <td>Suitable for displaying data with "ordered" dimension values, such as time series.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Stacked Area Chart</td>
        <td>Suitable for scenarios where you need to view the trend of different dimension values at various X points.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Basic Bar Chart</td>
        <td>Suitable for displaying the horizontal comparison of indicator values across different dimensions, such as comparing the distribution of the number of players (indicator) in multiple cities (dimension).</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Stacked Bar Chart</td>
        <td>Suitable for displaying the size comparison of values across different dimensions and sub-dimensions, such as comparing data from different provinces, with each province's bar also showing the values of each city.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Basic Bar Chart</td>
        <td>The difference between a bar chart and a basic bar chart is that one is displayed horizontally and the other is displayed vertically.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Stacked Bar Chart</td>
        <td>Suitable for displaying the size comparison of values across different dimensions and sub-dimensions, such as comparing data from different provinces, with each province's bar also showing the values of each city.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Bar Line Chart</td>
        <td>Suitable for displaying different indicators on the same ordered timeline to facilitate the observation of value differences or trend changes.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td class="center-text" style="width: 100px;" rowspan="4">Pie Chart</td>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Regular Pie Chart</td>
        <td>Suitable for displaying the proportion of different category data in the overall composition, such as the usage data of different operating system types.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Doughnut Chart</td>
        <td>A doughnut chart is just a pie chart in a different shape, with the same applicable scenarios.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Rose Pie Chart</td>
        <td>A rose chart is just a pie chart in a different shape, with the same applicable scenarios.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Sunburst Chart</td>
        <td>Suitable for displaying the distribution of multi-dimensional data with hierarchical relationships. For example, the number of people in the "department-center-team" structure of a company.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td class="center-text" style="width: 100px;">Table</td>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Detail Table</td>
        <td>Suitable for displaying each data record in a flat manner, which is a more common and universal way of data presentation.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td class="center-text" style="width: 100px;" rowspan="3">Dashboard</td>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Number Panel</td>
        <td>Suitable for displaying an overview of specific indicators.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Number & Trend Line</td>
        <td>Suitable for scenarios where you need to focus on specific target values and recent trends.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Dashboard</td>
        <td>Suitable for scenarios where you need to focus on specific target values and recent trends.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td class="center-text" style="width: 100px;" rowspan="2">Multimedia</td>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Text Box</td>
        <td>Suitable for inserting custom text content into the dashboard, supports referencing variables to dynamically obtain data.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Image</td>
        <td>Suitable for inserting images into the dashboard, supports local uploads or obtaining images via URL.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td class="center-text" style="width: 100px;" rowspan="4">Interactive Components</td>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Time Selector</td>
        <td>Suitable for filtering data by time field values in charts to view data at different time points or ranges.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Dropdown Selector</td>
        <td>Suitable for filtering data by time field values in charts to view data at different time points or ranges.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Input Box</td>
        <td>Suitable for filtering or screening the data returned by the chart by entering text content.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Checkbox</td>
        <td>By configuring different options, it allows users to check boxes to filter the data returned by the chart.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td class="center-text" style="width: 100px;" rowspan="3">Layout Components</td>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Group</td>
        <td>Suitable for dividing similar charts into a group for easy editing, viewing, or moving together.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Tab Container</td>
        <td>Suitable for scenarios where different content is displayed by switching tabs in the same area; for example, in the "Home Appliances" category of an e-commerce site, each tab represents a type of appliance, such as TVs, washing machines, air conditioners, etc.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Placeholder</td>
        <td>It is just an empty placeholder block, used for the aesthetic needs of layout and typesetting.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td class="center-text" style="width: 100px;" rowspan="1">Heatmap</td>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Calendar Heatmap</td>
        <td>Suitable for observing the overall situation by comparing data on different dates within a month.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td class="center-text" style="width: 100px;" rowspan="1">Others</td>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Radar Chart</td>
        <td>Suitable for displaying the attribute comparison of different objects under the same set of indicators.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td class="center-text" style="width: 100px;" rowspan="1">Map</td>
        <td style="width: 150px;">Map</td>
        <td>Uses the depth of color to display the size of values in regional areas, suitable for displaying data that is distributed in a scattered manner but in a surface area, such as population density.</td>
    </tr>
</table>
