# Development Environment and Configuration

### When installing a package with `pip install`, the prompt indicates that the package was not found

This might be due to an issue with the repository source configuration. It is recommended to use Tencent Cloud's PYPI source: `mirrors.cloud.tencent.com/pypi/simple/`

If you are still unable to install using Tencent Cloud's pypi source, for example:

```bash
Looking in indexes: http://mirrors.cloud.tencent.com/pypi/simple/
Collecting blueking-component-ieod==0.0.68
  Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement blueking-component==0.0.68 (from versions: )
No matching distribution found for blueking-component==0.0.68
You are using pip version 18.0, however version 20.1.1 is available.
You should consider upgrading via the 'pip install --upgrade pip' command.
```

The main reason is that the pip version is outdated. Please upgrade to a version >=19.0 and try again.

### How to install private Python packages

This issue can be broken down into two processes: how to upload private packages and how to install private packages on v3 applications.

Q: How to upload private packages
A: Use the PyPI source service provided by BlueKing Artifact Repository to upload private python packages, refer to the BlueKing Artifact Repository API documentation for details.

Q: How to install private packages on v3 applications
A: You can add an extra PyPI source through the advanced usage of requirement.txt, refer to the following content for specific operations:

```bash
# Append the following content to the end of requirements.txt
# Parameter explanation: --extra-index-url specifies an additional PyPI source
--extra-index-url https://your_pip.bking.com/repository/pypi/simple/
# Parameter explanation: --trusted-host trusts the Tencent internal source domain name
--trusted-host your_pip.bking.com
# Next, you can append the private Python packages as usual
# e.g.
blue-krill >= 0.0.7
bkuser >= 0.0.1
```

### How to access the application using an independent domain?

After deploying the application, you can use the independent subdomain (subpath in older versions) provided by the platform to access the application. This access address is generated by the platform according to the rules and cannot be modified. If you want to use another domain to access the application, you can refer to the following process:

1. Add domain records

   - Switch to the application and module for which you want to configure the domain
   - Access the feature page: "Access Management"
   - Select the staging or production environment, add the independent domain you want to use, for example: foo.bking.com, and save
     > Before proceeding to step 2, you can modify your local Hosts file to configure x.x.x.x foo.bking.com to test whether you can access the application normally through the domain.

2. Apply for a domain and configure resolution