# Brand Introduction

Tencent BlueKing, referred to as BlueKing, is a PaaS solution for building integrated enterprise R&D and operations developed by Tencent Interactive Entertainment Group (IEG) based on massive heterogeneous businesses. It provides modules such as aPaaS (DevOps pipeline, operating environment hosting, front-end and back-end framework) and iPaaS (BKCI, CMDB, JOB, BCS, BKBase, AIOps and other atomic platforms) to help enterprise technicians quickly build basic operation PaaS.

Traditional stand-alone operating systems such as Linux have been developed for decades. With the advent of the cloud era, the number of resources required by enterprises has skyrocketed. The number of operating nodes (physical or virtual servers and containers) generally reaches thousands, and large Internet companies even reach millions. The hybrid cloud model has become the norm. Although the emergence of IaaS suppliers has solved the problem of resource segmentation and scheduling to a certain extent, it has not solved the integration of resources and applications very well. Enterprises need a layer between IaaS and applications (SaaS) to shield and control IaaS, quickly develop and host SaaS. We call it the basic PaaS layer, and focus on developing the basic operation PaaS for R&D and hosting of technical operation SaaS within the enterprise, and use it as the next generation of enterprise-level distributed operation operating system different from traditional OS.

The full life cycle of enterprise IT applications can be divided into three stages: R&D, operation and maintenance, and operation. In the process of Internet transformation in various industries, agile thinking is integrated, that is, the concept of continuous integration, continuous deployment, and continuous operation (CI-CD-CO) is formed.

In order to reduce the cost of transformation and not to increase the number of manpower as a prerequisite for transformation, Tencent IEG takes the operation and maintenance team as the starting point of transformation, fully utilizes the characteristics of this group with a high proportion of low-value repetitive workload, cuts into the CD field, and uses PaaS technology to manage chimneys in the field of operation and maintenance automation to form an operation and maintenance PaaS system. Transform the human resources released by automation into the operation and maintenance development team, and use the self-growth attribute of PaaS to gradually expand the operation and maintenance PaaS to CI and CO, and finally complete the construction of enterprise-level R&D-Operation-Operation Basic PaaS, and implement the integration of enterprise R&D and operation.

Tencent BlueKing adheres to the concept of openness and win-win, recruits and cooperates with high-quality domestic partners, takes changing China's operation and maintenance industry as the starting point, and is committed to promoting domestic enterprises to use R&D and operation integration to achieve low-cost upgrades and autonomy of enterprise IT business management models.
